transcrypt(1) -- transparently encrypt files within a git repository
====================================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`transcrypt` [<options>...]

## DESCRIPTION

transcrypt will configure a Git repository to support the transparent
encryption/decryption of files by utilizing OpenSSL's symmetric cipher routines
and Git's built-in clean/smudge filters. It will also add a Git alias
"ls-crypt" to list all transparently encrypted files within the repository.

The transcrypt source code and full documentation may be downloaded from
<https://github.com/elasticdog/transcrypt>.

## OPTIONS

  * `-c`, `--cipher`=<cipher>:
    the symmetric cipher to utilize for encryption;
    defaults to aes-256-cbc

  * `-p`, `--password`=<password>:
    the password to derive the key from;
    defaults to 30 random base64 characters

  * `-y`, `--yes`:
    assume yes and accept defaults for non-specified options

  * `-d`, `--display`:
    display the current repository's cipher and password

  * `-r`, `--rekey`:
    re-encrypt all encrypted files using new credentials

  * `-f`, `--flush-credentials`:
    remove the locally cached encryption credentials
    and re-encrypt any files that had been previously decrypted

  * `-F`, `--force`:
    ignore whether the git directory is clean, proceed with the
    possibility that uncommitted changes are overwritten

  * `-u`, `--uninstall`:
    remove all transcrypt configuration from the repository
    and leave files in the current working copy decrypted

  * `-l`, `--list`:
    list all of the transparently encrypted files in the repository,
    relative to the top-level directory

  * `-s`, `--show-raw`=<file>:
    show the raw file as stored in the git commit object;
    use this to check if files are encrypted as expected

  * `-v`, `--version`:
    print the version information

  * `-h`, `--help`:
    view this help message

## EXAMPLES

To initialize a Git repository to support transparent encryption, just change
into the repo and run the transcrypt script. transcrypt will prompt you
interactively for all required information if the corresponding option flags
were not given.

    $ cd <path-to-your-repo>/
    $ transcrypt

Once a repository has been configured with transcrypt, you can transparently
encrypt files by applying the "crypt" filter and diff to a pattern in the
top-level _.gitattributes_ config. If that pattern matches a file in your
repository, the file will be transparently encrypted once you stage and commit
it:

    $ echo 'sensitive_file  filter=crypt diff=crypt' >> .gitattributes
    $ git add .gitattributes sensitive_file
    $ git commit -m 'Add encrypted version of a sensitive file'

See the gitattributes(5) man page for more information.

If you have just cloned a repository containing files that are encrypted,
you'll want to configure transcrypt with the same cipher and password as the
origin repository. Once transcrypt has stored the matching credentials, it will
force a checkout of any existing encrypted files in order to decrypt them.

If the origin repository has just rekeyed, all clones should flush their
transcrypt credentials, fetch and merge the new encrypted files via Git, and
then re-configure transcrypt with the new credentials.

## AUTHOR

Aaron Bull Schaefer &lt;aaron@elasticdog.com&gt;

## SEE ALSO

enc(1), gitattributes(5)
